What is javascript?

i. client side scripting language
ii. it is used to make web pages alive.
iii. it is used to programmatically perform action within the page.
iv. DOM will refer to the page(HTML,CSS:nav, section ul, etc)

What can javascript do?
i. javascript can be used in the browser and the server
ii. we will use javascript as a client side as well as server side language
iii. javascript has evolved greatly as a language and is now used to  perform wide variety of tasks

What can in-browser JavaScript do?
i. javascript has a safe design
ii. the code is passed to the browser, and the browser decides to run the code, runs through browser, hence safety
iii. it adds new html and change existing html from DOM(Document Object Module)
iv. react to events(action that a user performs)
v.AJAX requests
vi. Get and set cookies(You wont have to send data again and again to the browser) , and use local storage

What in-broswer JavaScript cant do?
i. Read/Write to and from Computer hard disk(You dont want some browser to be able to access your personal Documents, javascript cannot access your local Documents without your permission)
ii. AJAX requests(Lets say your using facebook and codewithharry parallely, your data is there on FB and is codewithharry sends an ajax request of  the html from FB, then he will be able to access) but browser works on same origin policy so that is restricted.
However if the websites agree on sharing the info,, there are ways to stop it if you want to, by default it has same origin policy

In short, your site can access permitted resources, but it cannot access your computer, or sites that have your private data

Hence javascript has very safe design.

What makes JavaScript unique,why not other languages?
i. it has full support via html and CSS
ii. simple thing have simple functions, simple APIs
iii. Supports major modern broswer(enabled by default)

Versions of JavaScript?
i. is maintained by its community
ii. ECMA(1997), standard to maintain javascript, it pushes new updates